preliminary release notes for 1.8 (#8415)
istio/istio.io: content/en/news/releases/1.8.x/announcing-1.8/change-notes/index.md

---
title: Change Notes
description: Istio 1.8 release notes.
weight: 10
---

## Traffic Management

> - **Added** support for injecting `istio-cni` into `k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/networks` annotation with preexisting value that uses JSON notation.

Reviewer: @GregHanson looks like this issue is still open. Should it be closed before release?

  ([Issue #25744](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25744))

> - **Added** support for `INSERT_FIRST`, `INSERT_BEFORE`, `INSERT_AFTER` insert operations for `HTTP_ROUTE` in `EnvoyFilter`  ([Issue #26692](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26692))

Reviewer: @GregHanson looks like this issue is still open. Should it be closed before release?

Author: the the pending api PR merged - closed it!

- **Added** `REPLACE` operation for `EnvoyFilter`. `REPLACE` operation can replace the contents of a named filter with new contents. It is only valid for `HTTP_FILTER` and `NETWORK_FILTER`.
  ([Issue #27425](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27425))

> - **Added** Istio resource status now includes observed generation

Reviewer: FYI: https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/28760/files

Author: fixed

             If this is not needed or creates problems with non Envoy clients, it can disabled by setting env variable `PILOT_SIDECAR_ENABLE_INBOUND_TLS_V2` to false.

- **Updated** The `ipBlocks`/`notIpBlocks` fields of an `AuthorizationPolicy` now strictly refer to the source IP address of the IP packet as it arrives at the sidecar.  Prior to this release, if using the Proxy Protocol, then the `ipBlocks`/`notIpBlocks` would refer to the IP address determined by the Proxy Protocol.  Now the `remoteIpBlocks`/`notRemoteIpBlocks` fields must be used to refer to the client IP address from the Proxy Protocol.
 ([reference](/docs/reference/config/security/authorization-policy/))([usage](/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/network-topologies/))([usage](/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-ingress/)) ([Issue #22341](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22341))

- **Added** `AuthorizationPolicy` now supports nested JWT claims.
  ([Issue #21340](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/21340))

- **Added** support for client side Envoy secure naming config when trust domain alias is used.

> Fix the multi-cluster service discovery client SAN generation: takes all endpoints' service accounts

Reviewer: Not an SME here, but I'd reword this as 

```suggestion
This fixes the multi-cluster service discovery client SAN generation to accept all endpoints' service accounts.
```

into account, rather than the first found service registry.

- **Added** Experimental feature support allowing Istiod to integrate with external certificate authorities using Kubernetes CSR API (>=1.18 only).
  ([Issue #27606](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27606))

- **Added** Enable user to set the custom VM identity provider for credential authentication
  ([Issue #27947](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27947))

> - **Added** action 'AUDIT' to Authorization Policy that can be used to determine which requests should be audited.

Reviewer: This issue isn't closed yet, but I think it can be. I've added a comment to the issue.

Author: issue closed

 ([reference](/docs/reference/config/security/authorization-policy/))([usage](/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/network-topologies/))([usage](/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-ingress/)) ([Issue #22341](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22341))

- **Added** Trust Domain Validation by default rejecting requests in sidecars if the request is not from same trust domain
or if it's not in the `TrustDomainAliases` specified in the `MeshConfig`.
  ([Issue #26224](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26224))

## Telemetry

> - **Updated** the "Control Plane Dashboard" and the "Performance Dashboard" to use the `container_memory_working_set_bytes` metric

Reviewer 2: Can you add a known issues section with the following content:

1. Memory leak in TCP Wasm extensions affecting TCP telemetry (see https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24720). The leak occurs when upstream connections are interrupted mid-stream.

2. Wasm extension configuration updates are disruptive (see https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/issues/13690). The configuration is immediately applied for existing requests and connections, and is not reverted if the outer xDS is rejected.

cc @mandarjog @douglas-reid

Author: @kyessenov I added the known issues section, let me know if that was the format you were looking for

Reviewer 3: I don't think this is right. These two known issues do not belong to this item (`**Updated** the "Control Plane Dashboard"...`). I think we need a top level `Known Issue` section? I'd need to add one for aggregate cluster as well: https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/28620. Do we have any precedence from past releases about where to add it?

Author: 1.1 and earlier releases have them at the announcement level - but I feel they are better suited for top level of change-notes

to display memory. This metric only counts memory that *cannot be reclaimed* by the kernel even under memory pressure,
and therefore more relevant for tracking. It is also consistent with `kubectl top`. The reported values are lower than
the previous values.

> - **Added** Update Istio Workload and Istio Service dashboards to improve loading time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Updated** the Istio Workload and Istio Service dashboards to improve loading time.
```

  ([Issue #22408](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22408))

- **Added** `datasource` parameter to Grafana dashboards
  ([Issue #22408](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22408))

- **Added** Listener Access Logs when `ResponseFlag` from Envoy is set.
  ([Issue #26851](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26851))

- **Added** support for `OpenCensusAgent` formatted trace export with configurable trace context headers.

- **Added** Proxy config to control Envoy native stats generation.
  ([Issue #26546](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26546))

- **Added** Istio Wasm Extension Grafana Dashboard.

>   ([Issue #25843](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25843))

Reviewer 2: **Added** gRPC streaming message count proxy Prometheus metrics `istio_request_messages_total` and `istio_response_messages_total` ([PR](https://github.com/istio/proxy/pull/3048)).

Reviewer 4: Yes. This needs to be added here.

@bianpengyuan @brian-avery we need a way to track and include changes that happen in istio/proxy with the same tooling. There are impactful changes that we may miss without that.

Reviewer 4: @kyessenov can you update https://preliminary.istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/metrics/ as well ?

Author: added @kyessenov 's additional release note

> - **Fixed** client side metric  missing destination workload labels for out-of-mesh destination or request that fails to reach destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue where client side metrics were missing the destination workload labels for out-of-mesh destination or requests that failed to reach the destination.
```

Reviewer 4: how about:

> **Added** support for properly labeling traffic in client metrics for cases when the destination is not reached or is not behind a proxy.

  ([Issue #20538](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/20538))

- **Fixed** interpretation of `$(HOST_IP)` in Zipkin and Datadog tracer address.
  ([Issue #27911](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27911))

- **Removed** all Mixer-related features and functionality. This is a scheduled
removal of a deprecated Istio services and deployments, as well as
Mixer-focused CRDs and component and related functionality.
  ([Issue #25333](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25333)),([Issue #24300](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24300))

## Installation

- **Improved** multi-network configuration so that labeling a service with `topology.istio.io/network=network-name` can
configure cross-network gateways without using [mesh networks](/docs/reference/config/istio.mesh.v1alpha1/#MeshNetworks).

- **Improved** sidecar injection to not modify the pod `securityPolicy.fsGroup` which could conflict with existing settings and secret mounts.
 This option is enabled automatically on Kubernetes 1.19+ and is not supported on older versions.
  ([Issue #26882](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26882))

> - **Improved** Generated operator manifests for use with `kustomize` are available in the [manifests]({{</* github_tree */>}}/manifests/charts/istio-operator/files) directory.

Reviewer: `{{</* github_tree */>}}` looks like it should be `{{< github_tree >}}/samples/sleep)`

https://github.com/istio/istio.io/search?q=github_tree

Author: ach, I had copied from the source - fixed

  ([Issue #27139](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27139))

- **Updated** install script to bypass GitHub API Rate Limiting.

- **Added** port `15012` to the default list of ports for the `istio-ingressgateway` Service.
  ([Issue #25933](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25933))

> - **Added** Istio 1.8 supports Kubernetes versions 1.17 to 1.19.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** support for Kubernetes versions 1.17 to 1.19 to Istio 1.8.
```

Reviewer 5: @GregHanson There is a change in the supported version for `1.8`.

more details in this PR: https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/28814

Reviewer 5: See https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/8415#discussion_r521988371

  ([Issue #25793](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25793))

> - **Added** The network for a Pod can be specified via the label `topology.istio.io/network`. This overrides the setting for the cluster's installation values (`values.globalnetwork`). If the label isn't set, it is injected based on the global value for the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** the ability to specify the network for a Pod using the label `topology.istio.io/network`. This overrides the setting for the cluster's installation values (`values.globalnetwork`). If the label isn't set, it is injected based on the global value for the cluster.
```

  ([Issue #25500](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25500))

> - **Deprecated** installation flags `values.global.meshExpansion.enabled` in favor of user-managed config and `values.gateways.istio-ingressgateway.meshExpansionPorts` in favor of `components.ingressGateways[name=istio-ingressgateway].k8s.service.ports`

Reviewer: @tbarrella Is this in 1.8 or 1.9? The linked issue (https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25933) makes it sound like it will be in 1.9. If not, should we close that issue and track the rest of the progress in another?

Reviewer 6: Hello, the release note and upgrade note are for 1.8; 1.9+ is for removing the flag completely

  ([Issue #25933](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25933))

> - **Fixed** allow configuring `RENEW_DEADLINE` for Istio operator manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** Istio operator manager to allow configuring `RENEW_DEADLINE`.
```

  ([Issue #27509](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27509))

- **Fixed** an issue preventing `NodePort` services from being used as the `registryServiceName` in `meshNetworks`.

> - **Removed** the installation of telemetry addons (Prometheus, Grafana, Zipkin, Jaeger, Kiali) by `istioctl`. See [Reworking our Addon Integrations](/blog/2020/addon-rework/) for more info.

Reviewer 4: @howardjohn do you think we need any more details here to clarify that Istio isn't dropping support for integrations with those services?  I'm slightly worried that a quick read will lead to someone thinking "wait, I can't configure Istio to use Prometheus anymore?".

i don't have any good ideas, though. Maybe:

> **Removed** support for installing third-party telemetry applications with `istioctl`. These applications (Prometheus, Grafana, Zipkin, Jaeger, and Kiali), often referred to as the Istio add-ons, must now be installed separately. This does not impact Istio's ability to produce telemetry for those use in the add-ons.

Reviewer 7: I agree on all counts. I think we should still keep the blog link though since it gives a bit more details

Author: updated to reflect Doug's comment

  ([Issue #23868](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23868)),([Issue #23583](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23583))

> - **Removed** `istio-telemetry` and `istio-policy` from installation by `istioctl`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Removed** `istio-telemetry` and `istio-policy` services and deployments from installation by `istioctl`.
```

  ([Issue #23868](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23868)),([Issue #23583](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23583))

## istioctl

- **Improved** `istioctl analyze` to find the exact line number with configuration errors when analyzing yaml files.
Before, it would return the first line of the resource with the error.

>   ([Issue #22872](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22872))

Reviewer: This issue is still open. Added a comment to it asking if it can be closed.

> - **Added** `istioctl experimental version` and `proxy-status` now use token security.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Updated** `istioctl experimental version` and `proxy-status` to use token security.
```

A new option, `--plaintext`, has been created for testing without tokens.
  ([Issue #24905](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24905))

- **Added** istioctl commands may now refer to pods indirectly, for example `istioctl dashboard envoy deployment/httpbin`
  ([Issue #26080](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26080))

- **Added** `io` as short name for Istio Operator resources in addition to `iop`.
  ([Issue #27159](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27159))

- **Added** `--type` for `istioctl experimental create-remote-secret` to allow user specify type for the created secret.

- **Added** an experimental OpenShift Kubernetes platform profile to `istioctl`. To install with the OpenShift profile, use `istioctl install --set profile=openshift`.
 ([OpenShift Platform Setup](/docs/setup/platform-setup/openshift/))([Install OpenShift using `istioctl`](/docs/setup/install/istioctl/#install-a-different-profile))

> - **Added** `istioctl bug-report` generates an archive of Istio and cluster information to assist with debugging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** `istioctl bug-report` command to generate an archive of Istio and cluster information to assist with debugging.
```

  ([Issue #26045](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26045))

> - **Added** New command `istioctl experimental istiod log` to enable managing logging levels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Added** new command `istioctl experimental istiod log` to enable managing logging levels
```

of `istiod` components.
  ([Issue #25276](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25276)),([Issue #27797](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27797))

- **Deprecated** `centralIstiod` flag in favor of `externalIstiod` to better support external control plane model.
  ([Issue #24471](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24471))

> - **Fixed** Prevent explicitly empty revision flag on install.  ([Issue #26940](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26940))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue which allowed an empty revision flag on install to be explicitly set.  ([Issue #26940](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26940))
```

---
title: Change Notes
description: Istio 1.8 release notes.
weight: 10
---

# Release Notes

## Traffic Management

- **Added** support for injecting istio-cni into `k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/networks` annotation with pre-existing value that uses JSON notation.
  ([Issue #25744](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25744))

- **Added** support for `INSERT_FIRST`, `INSERT_BEFORE`, `INSERT_AFTER` insert operations for `HTTP_ROUTE` in EnvoyFilter  ([Issue #26692](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26692))

- **Added** `REPLACE` operation for EnvoyFilter. `REPLACE` operation can replace the contents of a named filter with new contents. It is only valid for `HTTP_FILTER` and `NETWORK_FILTER`.
  ([Issue #27425](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27425))

> - **Added** Istio resource status now includes Observed Generation

Reviewer: Not sure we need to capitalize "observed generation"

Author: done

  ([Issue #25678](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25678))

- **Fixed** when a node has multiple IP addresses (e.g., a VM in the mesh expansion scenario),
Istio Proxy will now bind `inbound` listeners to the first applicable address in the list
(new behaviour) rather than to the last one (former behaviour).
  ([Issue #28269](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/28269))

## Security

- **Improved** Gateway certificates to be read and distributed from Istiod, rather than in the gateway pods.
This reduces the permissions required in the gateways, improves performance, and will make certificate reading
more flexible in the future. This change is fully backwards compatible with the old method, and requires no changes
to your cluster. If required, it can be disabled by setting the `ISTIOD_ENABLE_SDS_SERVER=false`
environment variable in Istiod.

- **Improved** TLS configuration on sidecar server side inbound paths to enforce TLSv2 version along with recommended cipher suites.
             If this is not needed or creates problems with non Envoy clients, it can disabled by setting env variable "PILOT_SIDECAR_ENABLE_INBOUND_TLS_V2" to false.

> - **Updated** The ipBlocks/notIpBlocks fields of an AuthorizationPolicy now strictly refer to the source IP address of the IP packet as it arrives to the sidecar.  Prior to this release, if using the Proxy Protocol, then the ipBlocks/notIpBlocks would refer to the IP address determined by the Proxy Protocol.  Now the remoteIpBlocks/notRemoteIpBlocks fields must be used to refer to the client IP address from the Proxy Protocol.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Updated** The ipBlocks/notIpBlocks fields of an `AuthorizationPolicy` now strictly refer to the source IP address of the IP packet as it arrives at the sidecar.  Prior to this release, if using the Proxy Protocol, then the ipBlocks/notIpBlocks would refer to the IP address determined by the Proxy Protocol.  Now the remoteIpBlocks/notRemoteIpBlocks fields must be used to refer to the client IP address from the Proxy Protocol.
```

 ([reference](/docs/reference/config/security/authorization-policy/))([usage](/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/network-topologies/))([usage](/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-ingress/)) ([Issue #22341](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22341))

> - **Added** AuthorizationPolicy now supports nested JWT claims.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Added** `AuthorizationPolicy` now supports nested JWT claims.
```

  ([Issue #21340](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/21340))

- **Added** support for client side Envoy secure naming config when trust domain alias is used.

> Fix the multi cluster service discovery client SAN generation: takes all endpoints' service accounts

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Fix the multi-cluster service discovery client SAN generation: takes all endpoint's service accounts
```

into account, rather than the first found service registry.

> - **Added** Experimental Feature support allowing Istiod to integrate with external certificate authorities using Kubernetes CSR API (>=1.18 only).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Added** Experimental feature support allowing Istiod to integrate with external certificate authorities using Kubernetes CSR API (>=1.18 only).
```

  ([Issue #27606](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27606))

- **Added** Enable user to set the custom vm identity provider for credential authentication
  ([Issue #27947](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27947))

- **Added** action 'AUDIT' to Authorization Policy that can be used to determine which requests should be audited.
  ([Issue #25591](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25591))

- **Added** support for migration and concurrent use of regular K8S tokens as well as new K8S tokens with audience. This feature is enabled by

> default, can be disabled by REQUIRE_3P_TOKEN environment variable in Istiod, which will require new tokens with audience. The

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
default, can be disabled by `REQUIRE_3P_TOKEN` environment variable in Istiod, which will require new tokens with audience. The
```

> TOKEN_AUDIENCE environment variable allows customizing the checked audience, default remains istio-ca.

Reviewer 5: It should be [TOKEN_AUDIENCES](https://github.com/istio/istio/blob/eeeeb3fb10dc77ae85b515e88c7b3b62df563374/pkg/security/security.go#L58)?
```suggestion
`TOKEN_AUDIENCES` environment variable allows customizing the checked audience, default remains istio-ca.
```

Author: nice catch

> - **Added** AuthorizationPolicy now supports a Source of type remoteIpBlocks/notRemoteIpBlocks that map to a new Condition attribute called "remote.ip" that can also be used in the "when" clause.  If using an http/https load balancer in front of the ingress gateway, the "remote.ip" attribute is set to the original client IP address determined by the X-Forwarded-For http header from the trusted proxy configured through the numTrustedProxies field of the gatewayTopology under the meshConfig when you install Istio or set it via an annotation on the ingress gateway.  See the documentation here: [Configuring Gateway Network Topology](/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/network-topologies/). If using a TCP load balancer with the Proxy Protocol in front of the ingress gateway, the "remote.ip" is set to the original client IP address as given by the Proxy Protocol.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Added** `AuthorizationPolicy` now supports a `Source` of type remoteIpBlocks/notRemoteIpBlocks that map to a new `Condition` attribute called "remote.ip" that can also be used in the "when" clause.  If using an http/https load balancer in front of the ingress gateway, the "remote.ip" attribute is set to the original client IP address determined by the `X-Forwarded-For` http header from the trusted proxy configured through the `numTrustedProxies` field of the `gatewayTopology` under the `meshConfig` when you install Istio or set it via an annotation on the ingress gateway.  See the documentation here: [Configuring Gateway Network Topology](/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/network-topologies/). If using a TCP load balancer with the Proxy Protocol in front of the ingress gateway, the "remote.ip" is set to the original client IP address as given by the Proxy Protocol.
```

 ([reference](/docs/reference/config/security/authorization-policy/))([usage](/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/network-topologies/))([usage](/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-ingress/)) ([Issue #22341](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22341))

- **Added** Trust Domain Validation by default rejecting requests in sidecars if the request is not from same trust domain

> or if it's not in the TrustDomainAliases specified in the MeshConfig.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
or if it's not in the `TrustDomainAliases` specified in the `MeshConfig`.
```

  ([Issue #26224](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26224))

## Telemetry

- **Updated** the "Control Plane Dashboard" and the "Performance Dashboard" to use the `container_memory_working_set_bytes` metric
to display memory. This metric only counts memory that *cannot be reclaimed* by the kernel even under memory pressure,
and therefore more relevant for tracking. It is also consistent with `kubectl top`. The reported values are lower than
the previous values.

- **Added** Update Istio Workload and Istio Service dashboards to improve loading time.
  ([Issue #22408](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22408))

- **Added** parameterise Grafana dashboards with datasource
  ([Issue #22408](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22408))

- **Added** Listener Access Logs when ResponseFlag from Envoy is set.
  ([Issue #26851](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26851))

> - **Added** added support for OpenCensusAgent formatted trace export with configurable trace context headers.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Added** added support for `OpenCensusAgent` formatted trace export with configurable trace context headers.
```

- **Added** Proxy config to control Envoy native stats generation.
  ([Issue #26546](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26546))

- **Added** Istio Wasm Extension Grafana Dashboard.
  ([Issue #25843](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25843))

- **Fixed** client side metric  missing destination workload labels for out-of-mesh destination or request that fails to reach destination.
  ([Issue #20538](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/20538))

> - **Fixed** interpretation of $(HOST_IP) in Zipkin and Datadog tracer address.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** interpretation of `$(HOST_IP)` in Zipkin and Datadog tracer address.
```

  ([Issue #27911](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27911))

- **Removed** all Mixer-related features and functionality. This is a scheduled
removal of a deprecated Istio services and deployments, as well as
Mixer-focused CRDs and component and related functionality.
  ([Issue #25333](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25333)),([Issue #24300](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24300))

## Installation

- **Improved** multi-network configuration so that labeling a service with `topology.istio.io/network=network-name` can

> configure cross-network gateways without using meshNetworks [meshNetworks](/docs/reference/config/istio.mesh.v1alpha1/#MeshNetworks).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
configure cross-network gateways without using [meshNetworks](/docs/reference/config/istio.mesh.v1alpha1/#MeshNetworks).
```

- **Improved** sidecar injection to not modify the pod `securityPolicy.fsGroup` which could conflict with existing settings and secret mounts.
 This option is enabled automatically on Kubernetes 1.19+ and is not supported on older versions.
  ([Issue #26882](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26882))

> - **Improved** Generated operator manifests for use with kustomize are available in the directory `manifests/charts/istio-operator/files/gen-operator.yaml`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Improved** Generated operator manifests for use with kustomize are available in the [manifests](https://github.com/istio/istio/tree/master/manifests/charts/istio-operator/files) directory.
```

  ([Issue #27139](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27139))

> - **Updated** install script to bypass Github API Rate Limiting.

Reviewer 5: Any reference issue we can link here?

Author: @shamsher31 I tracked down the original PR (see [here](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/23469)) but no issue was created for it

Reviewer 5: Thanks @GregHanson. I see the release note in the PR but there is no issue linked to it. Can we add the issue link?

> - **Added** port 15012 to the default list of ports for the `istio-ingressgateway` Service.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Added** port `15012` to the default list of ports for the `istio-ingressgateway` Service.
```

  ([Issue #25933](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25933))

> - **Added** Istio 1.8 supports kubernetes versions 1.17 to 1.19.

Reviewer 5: @GregHanson There is a change in the supported version for `1.8`.

more details in this PR: https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/28814

> - **Added** Istio 1.8 supports kubernetes versions 1.17 to 1.19.

Author: got it

  ([Issue #25793](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25793))

- **Added** The network for a Pod can be specified via the label "topology.istio.io/network". This overrides the setting for the cluster's installation values (values.globalnetwork). If the label isn't set, it is injected based on the global value for the cluster.
  ([Issue #25500](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25500))

- **Deprecated** installation flags `values.global.meshExpansion.enabled` in favor of user-managed config and `values.gateways.istio-ingressgateway.meshExpansionPorts` in favor of `components.ingressGateways[name=istio-ingressgateway].k8s.service.ports`
  ([Issue #25933](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25933))

> - **Fixed** allow configure RENEW_DEADLINE for istio operator manager.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** allow configuring `RENEW_DEADLINE` for istio operator manager.
```

  ([Issue #27509](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27509))

> - **Fixed** an issue preventing NodePort services from being used as the `registryServiceName` in `meshNetworks`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Fixed** an issue preventing `NodePort` services from being used as the `registryServiceName` in `meshNetworks`.
```

> - **Removed** the installation of telemetry addons (Prometheus, Grafana, Zipkin, Jaeger, Kiali) from installation by `istioctl`. See [Reworking our Addon Integrations](/blog/2020/addon-rework/) for more info.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Removed** the installation of telemetry addons (Prometheus, Grafana, Zipkin, Jaeger, Kiali) by `istioctl`. See [Reworking our Addon Integrations](/blog/2020/addon-rework/) for more info.
```

  ([Issue #23868](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23868)),([Issue #23583](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23583))

- **Removed** istio-telemetry and istio-policy from installation by `istioctl`.
  ([Issue #23868](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23868)),([Issue #23583](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/23583))

## istioctl

- **Improved** `istioctl analyze` to find the exact line number with configuration errors when analyzing yaml files.
Before, it would return the first line of the resource with the error.
  ([Issue #22872](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22872))

- **Added** `istioctl experimental version` and `proxy-status` now use token security.
A new option, `--plaintext`, has been created for testing without tokens.
  ([Issue #24905](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24905))

> - **Added** istioctl commands may now refer to pods indirectly, for example 'istioctl dashboard envoy deployment/httpbin'

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Added** istioctl commands may now refer to pods indirectly, for example `istioctl dashboard envoy deployment/httpbin`
```

  ([Issue #26080](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26080))

- **Added** `io` as shortname for Istio Operator resources in addition to `iop`.
  ([Issue #27159](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27159))

> - **Added** `--type` for `istioctl experimental create-remote-secret` to allow user specify type for the created secret

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Added** `--type` for `istioctl experimental create-remote-secret` to allow user specify type for the created secret.
```

- **Added** an experimental OpenShift Kubernetes platform profile to `istioctl`. To install with the OpenShift profile, use `istioctl install --set profile=openshift`.
 ([OpenShift Platform Setup](/docs/setup/platform-setup/openshift/))([Install OpenShift using `istioctl`](/docs/setup/install/istioctl/#install-a-different-profile))

> - **Added** istioctl bug-report generates an archive of Istio and cluster information to assist with debugging.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Added** `istioctl bug-report` generates an archive of Istio and cluster information to assist with debugging.
```

---
title: Change Notes
description: Istio 1.8 release notes.
weight: 10
---

> {{< warning >}}

Reviewer: The warnings should be removed from both files before publishing

## Installation

- **Promoted** external control plane to alpha.
  ([Issue #11](https://github.com/istio/enhancements/issues/11))

- **Updated** Kiali addon to version 1.26.

- **Added** support for [installing and upgrading Istio](/docs/setup/install/helm/) using [Helm 3](https://helm.sh/docs/)

- **Improved** multi-network configuration so that labeling a service with `topology.istio.io/network=network-name` can
configure cross-network gateways without using [mesh networks](/docs/reference/config/istio.mesh.v1alpha1/#MeshNetworks).

- **Improved** sidecar injection to not modify the pod `securityPolicy.fsGroup` which could conflict with existing settings and secret mounts.
 This option is enabled automatically on Kubernetes 1.19+ and is not supported on older versions.
  ([Issue #26882](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26882))

- **Improved** Generated operator manifests for use with `kustomize` are available in the [manifests]({{< github_tree >}}/manifests/charts/istio-operator/files) directory.
  ([Issue #27139](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27139))

- **Updated** install script to bypass GitHub API Rate Limiting.

> 

Reviewer 5: based on https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/8415#discussion_r524885940

```suggestion
([Issue #23469](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/23469))
```

Reviewer 5: Thanks.

---
title: Change Notes
description: Istio 1.8 release notes.
weight: 10
---

## Traffic Management

- **Added** DNS capture in istio-agent by default for VMs installed using `istioctl x workload entry configure`.

- **Added** support for injecting `istio-cni` into `k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/networks` annotation with preexisting value that uses JSON notation.

>   ([Issue #25744](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25744))

Reviewer 8: AFAIK this doesn't work and shouldn't be added to release notes. @howardjohn FYI.

Author: cc @luksa as the original PR author - commenting out this release note until confirmed

- **Added** support for `INSERT_FIRST`, `INSERT_BEFORE`, `INSERT_AFTER` insert operations for `HTTP_ROUTE` in `EnvoyFilter`  ([Issue #26692](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26692))

- **Added** `REPLACE` operation for `EnvoyFilter`. `REPLACE` operation can replace the contents of a named filter with new contents. It is only valid for `HTTP_FILTER` and `NETWORK_FILTER`.
  ([Issue #27425](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27425))

- **Added** Istio resource status now includes observed generation
  ([Issue #28003](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/28003))

- **Fixed** remove endpoints when the new labels in `WorkloadEntry` do not match the `workloadSelector` in `ServiceEntry`.

>   ([Issue #25678](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25678))

Reviewer 8: This can use some re-wording. I don't quite understand this fix so if someone explains it to me I can help in the phrasing.

- **Fixed** when a node has multiple IP addresses (e.g., a VM in the mesh expansion scenario),
Istio Proxy will now bind `inbound` listeners to the first applicable address in the list
(new behavior) rather than to the last one (former behavior).
  ([Issue #28269](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/28269))

## Security

> - **Improved** Gateway certificates to be read and distributed from Istiod, rather than in the gateway pods.

Author: no issue immediately found, I will link the corresponding PR: https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/27744

> This reduces the permissions required in the gateways, improves performance, and will make certificate reading
> more flexible in the future. This change is fully backwards compatible with the old method, and requires no changes

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
This reduces the permissions required in the gateways, improves performance, and makes certificate reading
more extensible. This change is fully backwards compatible with the old mechanism, and requires no changes
```

to your cluster. If required, it can be disabled by setting the `ISTIOD_ENABLE_SDS_SERVER=false`
environment variable in Istiod.

- **Improved** TLS configuration on sidecar server side inbound paths to enforce `TLSv2` version along with recommended cipher suites.

>              If this is not needed or creates problems with non Envoy clients, it can disabled by setting env variable `PILOT_SIDECAR_ENABLE_INBOUND_TLS_V2` to false.

Reviewer 9: Is there a github issue for this?

>              If this is not needed or creates problems with non Envoy clients, it can disabled by setting env variable `PILOT_SIDECAR_ENABLE_INBOUND_TLS_V2` to false.

Author: no issue, but I will like the corresponding PR: https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/27500

- **Updated** The `ipBlocks`/`notIpBlocks` fields of an `AuthorizationPolicy` now strictly refer to the source IP address of the IP packet as it arrives at the sidecar.  Prior to this release, if using the Proxy Protocol, then the `ipBlocks`/`notIpBlocks` would refer to the IP address determined by the Proxy Protocol.  Now the `remoteIpBlocks`/`notRemoteIpBlocks` fields must be used to refer to the client IP address from the Proxy Protocol.
 ([reference](/docs/reference/config/security/authorization-policy/))([usage](/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/network-topologies/))([usage](/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-ingress/)) ([Issue #22341](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22341))

- **Added** `AuthorizationPolicy` now supports nested JWT claims.
  ([Issue #21340](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/21340))

> - **Added** support for client side Envoy secure naming config when trust domain alias is used.

Reviewer 9: Not sure if @incfly worked on this one, if you worked on this can we add a link to the github issue?

Reviewer 10: https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/26185

the PR has linked for the design. we don't have an issue number.

Reviewer 5: It's ok to add a PR link if there is no issue available for it. See [this](https://github.com/istio/istio.io/pull/8415/commits/fb1f312bec816296f92500205f2e485bf1381263).

This fixes the multi-cluster service discovery client SAN generation to use all endpoints' service accounts rather than the first found service registry.

> - **Added** Experimental feature support allowing Istiod to integrate with external certificate authorities using Kubernetes CSR API (>=1.18 only).

Reviewer 11: @shankgan could you add link to the user guide in istio.io as well? Thanks!

Reviewer 12: Added link to user guide as suggestion

> - **Added** Experimental feature support allowing Istiod to integrate with external certificate authorities using Kubernetes CSR API (>=1.18 only).

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
- **Added** Experimental feature support allowing Istiod to integrate with external certificate authorities using Kubernetes CSR API (>=1.18 only).
```suggestion
- **Added** Experimental feature support allowing Istiod to integrate with external certificate authorities using Kubernetes CSR API (>=1.18 only).
([usage](/docs/tasks/security/custom-ca-k8s/))
```
```

>   ([Issue #27606](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27606))

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
  ([Issue #27606](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27606))([usage](/docs/tasks/security/custom-ca-k8s/))
```

Author: @shankgan added

- **Added** Enable user to set the custom VM identity provider for credential authentication
  ([Issue #27947](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27947))

- **Added** action 'AUDIT' to Authorization Policy that can be used to determine which requests should be audited.
  ([Issue #25591](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25591))

> - **Added** support for migration and concurrent use of regular K8S tokens as well as new K8S tokens with audience. This feature is enabled by

Reviewer 9: @myidpt do you know who worked on this and can we add a link to the github issue? thanks

Author: no immediate issue found, will link the original PR: https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/26482

- **Added** `AuthorizationPolicy` now supports a `Source` of type `remoteIpBlocks`/`notRemoteIpBlocks` that map to a new `Condition` attribute called `remote.ip` that can also be used in the "when" clause.  If using an http/https load balancer in front of the ingress gateway, the `remote.ip` attribute is set to the original client IP address determined by the `X-Forwarded-For` http header from the trusted proxy configured through the `numTrustedProxies` field of the `gatewayTopology` under the `meshConfig` when you install Istio or set it via an annotation on the ingress gateway.  See the documentation here: [Configuring Gateway Network Topology](/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/network-topologies/). If using a TCP load balancer with the Proxy Protocol in front of the ingress gateway, the `remote.ip` is set to the original client IP address as given by the Proxy Protocol.
 ([reference](/docs/reference/config/security/authorization-policy/))([usage](/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/network-topologies/))([usage](/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-ingress/)) ([Issue #22341](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22341))

> - **Added** Trust Domain Validation by default rejecting requests in sidecars if the request is not from same trust domain

Reviewer 9: isn't this already in 1.7 release? https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.7.x/announcing-1.7/#security-enhancements

Reviewer 9: @GregHanson can we remove this one? It's already in 1.7.

Author: done

or if it's not in the `TrustDomainAliases` specified in the `MeshConfig`.
  ([Issue #26224](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26224))

## Telemetry

- **Updated** the "Control Plane Dashboard" and the "Performance Dashboard" to use the `container_memory_working_set_bytes` metric
to display memory. This metric only counts memory that *cannot be reclaimed* by the kernel even under memory pressure,
and therefore more relevant for tracking. It is also consistent with `kubectl top`. The reported values are lower than
the previous values. Known issues:
    - Memory leak in TCP Wasm extensions affecting TCP telemetry (see [Issue #24720](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24720)). The leak occurs when upstream connections are interrupted mid-stream.
    - Wasm extension configuration updates are disruptive (see [Issue #13690](https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/issues/13690)). The configuration is immediately applied for existing requests and connections, and is not reverted if the outer xDS is rejected.

> - **Updated** the Istio Workload and Istio Service dashboards to improve loading time.
>   ([Issue #22408](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22408))

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
- **Updated** the Istio Workload and Istio Service dashboards resulting in faster load time.
  ([Issue #22408](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/22408))
```

## Installation

- **Promoted** external control plane to alpha.
  ([Issue #11](https://github.com/istio/enhancements/issues/11))

- **Updated** Kiali addon to version 1.26.

- **Added** support for [installing and upgrading Istio](/docs/setup/install/helm/) using [Helm 3](https://helm.sh/docs/)

- **Improved** multi-network configuration so that labeling a service with `topology.istio.io/network=network-name` can
configure cross-network gateways without using [mesh networks](/docs/reference/config/istio.mesh.v1alpha1/#MeshNetworks).

- **Improved** sidecar injection to not modify the pod `securityPolicy.fsGroup` which could conflict with existing settings and secret mounts.
 This option is enabled automatically on Kubernetes 1.19+ and is not supported on older versions.
  ([Issue #26882](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26882))

- **Improved** Generated operator manifests for use with `kustomize` are available in the [manifests]({{< github_tree >}}/manifests/charts/istio-operator/files) directory.
  ([Issue #27139](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27139))

- **Updated** install script to bypass GitHub API Rate Limiting.

>   ([Pull Request #23469](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/23469))

Reviewer 5: This will be consistent with others that don't have issues created for them. 
```suggestion
  ([PR #23469](https://github.com/istio/istio/pull/23469))
```

  ([Issue #25933](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25933))

- **Added** support for Kubernetes versions 1.16 to 1.19 to Istio 1.8.
  ([Issue #25793](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25793))

- **Added** the ability to specify the network for a Pod using the label `topology.istio.io/network`. This overrides the setting for the cluster's installation values (`values.globalnetwork`). If the label isn't set, it is injected based on the global value for the cluster.
  ([Issue #25500](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25500))

- **Deprecated** installation flags `values.global.meshExpansion.enabled` in favor of user-managed config and `values.gateways.istio-ingressgateway.meshExpansionPorts` in favor of `components.ingressGateways[name=istio-ingressgateway].k8s.service.ports`
  ([Issue #25933](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25933))

- **Fixed** Istio operator manager to allow configuring `RENEW_DEADLINE`.
  ([Issue #27509](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27509))

- **Fixed** an issue preventing `NodePort` services from being used as the `registryServiceName` in `meshNetworks`.

> - **Removed** support for installing third-party telemetry applications with `istioctl`. These applications (Prometheus, Grafana, Zipkin, Jaeger, and Kiali), often referred to as the Istio addons, must now be installed separately. This does not impact Istio's ability to produce telemetry for those use in the addons. See [Reworking our Addon Integrations](/blog/2020/addon-rework/) for more info.

Reviewer 8: @ostromart should this also mention "Operator"?

- **Added** Proxy config to control Envoy native stats generation.
  ([Issue #26546](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/26546))

- **Added** Istio Wasm Extension Grafana Dashboard.
  ([Issue #25843](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25843))

- **Added** gRPC streaming message count proxy Prometheus `metrics istio_request_messages_total` and `istio_response_messages_total`
  ([Pull Request #3048](https://github.com/istio/proxy/pull/3048))

- **Added** support for properly labeling traffic in client metrics for cases when the destination is not reached or is not behind a proxy.
  ([Issue #20538](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/20538))

- **Fixed** interpretation of `$(HOST_IP)` in Zipkin and Datadog tracer address.
  ([Issue #27911](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/27911))

- **Removed** all Mixer-related features and functionality. This is a scheduled
removal of a deprecated Istio services and deployments, as well as
Mixer-focused CRDs and component and related functionality.
  ([Issue #25333](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/25333)),([Issue #24300](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/24300))

## Installation

> - **Promoted** external control plane to alpha.

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
- **Promoted** [external control plane](/docs/setup/additional-setup/external-controlplane/) to alpha.
```

Author: fixed
